README.md, before:

# Update Night Newsletter Agent

An automated system for generating the Update Night newsletter using AI agents. This project uses crewAI to orchestrate multiple agents that collect links from Discord, scrape content, and generate newsletter content in the Update Night style.

## 🚀 Features

- Automated Discord link collection with categorization
- AI-powered link categorization using Gemini 2.5 Flash
- Web scraping with screenshots using crawl4ai
- AI-powered content summarization with writing style matching
- Markdown output with properly formatted sections and images
- Configurable crawler settings for headless mode and timeouts
- AI model integration (OpenAI GPT or Google Gemini) for intelligent content processing

## 📁 Project Structure

```
.
├── src/
│   ├── agents/
│   │   ├── discord_collector.py  # Collects links from Discord
│   │   ├── link_collector.py     # Processes links.md
│   │   ├── content_scraper.py    # Web scraping and screenshots
│   │   └── content_writer.py     # Newsletter generation
│   ├── scripts/
│   │   ├── process_url.py        # Process a single URL
│   │   └── categorize_links.py   # Categorize links using AI
│   ├── utils/
│   │   ├── ai_categorizer.py     # AI-based categorization using Gemini
│   │   ├── link_categorizer.py   # Link categorization utilities
│   │   ├── logging_config.py     # Logging configuration
│   │   └── model_provider.py     # AI model provider utilities
│   ├── config.py                 # Configuration management
│   └── main.py                   # Main orchestrator
├── samples/                      # Writing style examples
├── output/                      # Generated content
├── requirements.txt             # Python dependencies
└── .env                        # Configuration
```

## 🛠️ Setup

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.11 or higher
- AI model API key (OpenAI or Google Gemini)
- Discord bot token and permissions

### Installation

1. Install dependencies:

```bash
# Using pip
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Or using poetry
poetry install
```

2. Configure environment variables:

```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

Edit `.env` and configure:

```ini
# Required
DISCORD_TOKEN=your_discord_bot_token
DISCORD_GUILD_ID=your_server_id

# AI Model configuration
# Choose between 'openai' or 'gemini'
AI_PROVIDER=openai

# API Keys (only one is required based on your AI_PROVIDER setting)
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key_here  # Required if AI_PROVIDER=openai
# GEMINI_API_KEY=your_gemini_api_key_here  # Required if AI_PROVIDER=gemini

# Optional
COLLECT_SINCE_DATE=2025-02-06  # Default: current date
OUTPUT_DIR=output             # Default: output
HEADLESS=true                # Default: true (run browser in headless mode)
TIMEOUT=30                   # Default: 30 (seconds for page load timeout)
```

### Discord Bot Setup

1. Create a new Discord application at https://discord.com/developers/applications
2. Create a bot and get the token
3. Enable required intents:
   - Server Members Intent
   - Message Content Intent (required to read message content)
   - Guild Messages Intent (required to read server messages)
4. Invite the bot to your server with these permissions:
   - Read Messages/View Channels
   - Read Message History
5. Add the bot token and server ID to your `.env` file

## 🚗 Usage

1. The agent will automatically:

   - Collect links from all Discord channels except:
     - rules
     - moderator-only
     - welcome
     - announcements
     - featured
     - jobs
     - conferences
     - hackathons
   - Categorize the collected links into sections:
     - The Big Picture (major headlines)
     - Under the Radar (undercovered stories)
     - TrAIn of Thought (AI/ML news)
     - The Grid (design/component libraries)
     - The Spotlight (open source highlights)
   - Generate links.md with categorized links
   - Scrape content and take screenshots
   - Generate the final newsletter using AI models (OpenAI or Gemini)

2. Run the newsletter generation:

```bash
python src/main.py
```

The generated newsletter will be saved to `output/newsletter.md` along with screenshots of the referenced web pages.

3. Categorize links using AI:

You can use Gemini AI to automatically categorize links in your links.md file:

```bash
# Categorize links in links.md using AI
python src/main.py --categorize

# Specify a custom links file
python src/main.py --categorize --links-file=custom_links.md
```

When running the normal newsletter generation process, you'll also be prompted if you want to use AI categorization.

## 🎯 Link Categorization

Links can be categorized in two ways:

### Keyword-Based Categorization

By default, links from Discord are categorized based on context and keywords:

- **The Big Picture**: Major announcements, launches, breaking news
- **Under the Radar**: Experimental features, insights, analyses
- **TrAIn of Thought**: AI/ML developments, models, research
- **The Grid**: Design systems, UI/UX, component libraries
- **The Spotlight**: Open source projects, tools, resources

You can customize keyword-based categorization by modifying the keywords in `discord_collector.py`.

### AI-Based Categorization

For more accurate categorization, you can use the Gemini AI model to analyze the content of each link and determine the most appropriate category. This is especially useful for links that don't have clear keywords in their context.

The AI categorization:

- Scrapes the full content of each link
- Analyzes the content using Gemini 2.5 Flash
- Assigns each link to the most appropriate category
- Updates the links.md file with the new categorization

To use AI categorization, run:

```bash
python src/main.py --categorize
```

## 🔧 Configuration

### Crawler Settings

- `HEADLESS`: Controls whether to run the browser in headless mode (default: true)
- `TIMEOUT`: Maximum time in seconds to wait for a page to load (default: 30)

### AI Model Integration

The agent supports two AI model providers:

#### OpenAI Integration

To use OpenAI's GPT models:

- Set `AI_PROVIDER=openai` in your `.env` file
- Configure your `OPENAI_API_KEY`
- Default model: gpt-4o-mini

#### Gemini Integration

To use Google's Gemini models:

- Set `AI_PROVIDER=gemini` in your `.env` file
- Configure your `GEMINI_API_KEY`
- Default model: gemini-2.5-flash-preview-04-17

Both providers are used to:

- Analyze and categorize content
- Generate summaries in the Update Night style
- Ensure consistent tone and formatting
- Extract key insights from articles

## 🤝 Contributing

Feel free to submit issues and enhancement requests!

To contribute:

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Submit a pull request

Please make sure to update tests as appropriate.

Commit message:

feat: add text processing script to generate reports from text files

README.md, after:

# Update Night Newsletter Agent

An automated system for generating the Update Night newsletter using AI agents. This project uses crewAI to orchestrate multiple agents that collect links from Discord, scrape content, and generate newsletter content in the Update Night style.

## 🚀 Features

- Automated Discord link collection with categorization
- AI-powered link categorization using Gemini 2.5 Flash
- Web scraping with screenshots using crawl4ai
- AI-powered content summarization with writing style matching
- Markdown output with properly formatted sections and images
- Configurable crawler settings for headless mode and timeouts
- AI model integration (OpenAI GPT or Google Gemini) for intelligent content processing

## 📁 Project Structure

```
.
├── src/
│   ├── agents/
│   │   ├── discord_collector.py  # Collects links from Discord
│   │   ├── link_collector.py     # Processes links.md
│   │   ├── content_scraper.py    # Web scraping and screenshots
│   │   └── content_writer.py     # Newsletter generation
│   ├── scripts/
│   │   ├── process_url.py        # Process a single URL
│   │   ├── process_text.py       # Process text from a file
│   │   └── categorize_links.py   # Categorize links using AI
│   ├── utils/
│   │   ├── ai_categorizer.py     # AI-based categorization using Gemini
│   │   ├── link_categorizer.py   # Link categorization utilities
│   │   ├── logging_config.py     # Logging configuration
│   │   └── model_provider.py     # AI model provider utilities
│   ├── config.py                 # Configuration management
│   └── main.py                   # Main orchestrator
├── samples/                      # Writing style examples
├── output/                      # Generated content
├── requirements.txt             # Python dependencies
└── .env                        # Configuration
```

## 🛠️ Setup

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.11 or higher
- AI model API key (OpenAI or Google Gemini)
- Discord bot token and permissions

### Installation

1. Install dependencies:

```bash
# Using pip
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Or using poetry
poetry install
```

2. Configure environment variables:

```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

Edit `.env` and configure:

```ini
# Required
DISCORD_TOKEN=your_discord_bot_token
DISCORD_GUILD_ID=your_server_id

# AI Model configuration
# Choose between 'openai' or 'gemini'
AI_PROVIDER=openai

# API Keys (only one is required based on your AI_PROVIDER setting)
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key_here  # Required if AI_PROVIDER=openai
# GEMINI_API_KEY=your_gemini_api_key_here  # Required if AI_PROVIDER=gemini

# Optional
COLLECT_SINCE_DATE=2025-02-06  # Default: current date
OUTPUT_DIR=output             # Default: output
HEADLESS=true                # Default: true (run browser in headless mode)
TIMEOUT=30                   # Default: 30 (seconds for page load timeout)
```

### Discord Bot Setup

1. Create a new Discord application at https://discord.com/developers/applications
2. Create a bot and get the token
3. Enable required intents:
   - Server Members Intent
   - Message Content Intent (required to read message content)
   - Guild Messages Intent (required to read server messages)
4. Invite the bot to your server with these permissions:
   - Read Messages/View Channels
   - Read Message History
5. Add the bot token and server ID to your `.env` file

## 🚗 Usage

1. The agent will automatically:

   - Collect links from all Discord channels except:
     - rules
     - moderator-only
     - welcome
     - announcements
     - featured
     - jobs
     - conferences
     - hackathons
   - Categorize the collected links into sections:
     - The Big Picture (major headlines)
     - Under the Radar (undercovered stories)
     - TrAIn of Thought (AI/ML news)
     - The Grid (design/component libraries)
     - The Spotlight (open source highlights)
   - Generate links.md with categorized links
   - Scrape content and take screenshots
   - Generate the final newsletter using AI models (OpenAI or Gemini)

2. Run the newsletter generation:

```bash
python src/main.py
```

The generated newsletter will be saved to `output/newsletter.md` along with screenshots of the referenced web pages.

3. Categorize links using AI:

You can use Gemini AI to automatically categorize links in your links.md file:

```bash
# Categorize links in links.md using AI
python src/main.py --categorize

# Specify a custom links file
python src/main.py --categorize --links-file=custom_links.md
```

When running the normal newsletter generation process, you'll also be prompted if you want to use AI categorization.

4. Process a single URL:

```bash
# Process a single URL and generate a report
python src/scripts/process_url.py https://example.com

# Specify a custom output file
python src/scripts/process_url.py https://example.com --output custom_report.md
```

5. Process text from a file:

```bash
# Process text from text.md and generate a report (URL is used for reference only)
python src/scripts/process_text.py https://example.com

# Specify a custom input and output file
python src/scripts/process_text.py https://example.com --input custom_text.md --output custom_report.md
```

For the text processing script, you need to:

1. Create a text.md file (or specify a custom file with --input)
2. Paste the content you want to process into the file
3. Run the script with a reference URL (used for attribution)

## 🎯 Link Categorization

Links can be categorized in two ways:

### Keyword-Based Categorization

By default, links from Discord are categorized based on context and keywords:

- **The Big Picture**: Major announcements, launches, breaking news
- **Under the Radar**: Experimental features, insights, analyses
- **TrAIn of Thought**: AI/ML developments, models, research
- **The Grid**: Design systems, UI/UX, component libraries
- **The Spotlight**: Open source projects, tools, resources

You can customize keyword-based categorization by modifying the keywords in `discord_collector.py`.

### AI-Based Categorization

For more accurate categorization, you can use the Gemini AI model to analyze the content of each link and determine the most appropriate category. This is especially useful for links that don't have clear keywords in their context.

The AI categorization:

- Scrapes the full content of each link
- Analyzes the content using Gemini 2.5 Flash
- Assigns each link to the most appropriate category
- Updates the links.md file with the new categorization

To use AI categorization, run:

```bash
python src/main.py --categorize
```

## 🔧 Configuration

### Crawler Settings

- `HEADLESS`: Controls whether to run the browser in headless mode (default: true)
- `TIMEOUT`: Maximum time in seconds to wait for a page to load (default: 30)

### AI Model Integration

The agent supports two AI model providers:

#### OpenAI Integration

To use OpenAI's GPT models:

- Set `AI_PROVIDER=openai` in your `.env` file
- Configure your `OPENAI_API_KEY`
- Default model: gpt-4o-mini

#### Gemini Integration

To use Google's Gemini models:

- Set `AI_PROVIDER=gemini` in your `.env` file
- Configure your `GEMINI_API_KEY`
- Default model: gemini-2.5-flash-preview-04-17

Both providers are used to:

- Analyze and categorize content
- Generate summaries in the Update Night style
- Ensure consistent tone and formatting
- Extract key insights from articles

## 🤝 Contributing

Feel free to submit issues and enhancement requests!

To contribute:

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Submit a pull request

Please make sure to update tests as appropriate.
